Recording, sorry.
Ohh, OK, that's fine. OK then.
Thank you. Then we'll start with it.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome to this handover session,
which is sort of notes.
I have changed the name of the topic in
Aha. The name is a little bit different,
but I thought that it makes sense to put
it in this way so that it is more
understandable.
Okay, so let's start with that.
Rudikar will not be able to join because
of a parallel meeting,
but Nils is already there.
So we will have an overview about the
topic and also the related topics linked
with that. And what is the, why we need,
what is the current functionality,
how do we handle budget sort of nodes and.
..
and why we need a new persistency and
also like what is the impact on this
modernization,
purchase order modernization topic.
And we will also go through some of the
open questions that we have where we have
to do some more analysis and also the
rough effort estimation is also provided.
Okay, so
I think you notes is not a new topic for
most of the teams in procurement, I guess.
So a lot of business objects are already
using this subscript, not text tables,
which is mainly a cluster table.
STXH and STXL tables are used.
So we, in the legacy solutions,
we use these subscript function modules
like read text, save text, etc.
to store and access these application
texts.
So even purchase order has similarly,
sales order also have similar
functionality.
So the problem with these cluster tables
is that, you know,
It is not a normal kind of table where we
can directly build some serious views on
top of that or something.
And in order to access the data from
these tables,
there are no direct access methods.
Like nowadays,
we already hear a lot about these
analytical use cases, also BDC, AI topics,
et cetera.
in which we don't have a, you know,
one way of doing normal VDM method is not
possible.
So if you have seen it in most of the
business subject,
what they normally do is to access the
node section.
They normally use this MDP table
functions.
or some teams have used the CDS views
which are built on top of this ESH views.
So for example, from subscript team side,
they have already provided some views for
enterprise search help.
These views are also used in a different
way to access the data.
in some of the business subject.
That is why, so already,
because this cannot be integrated into
all these analytical use cases also as a
part of CDS views, normal BDC concept,
everything.
So this is why SAP script teams have come
up with the new persistency concept.
So this is actually existing for some few
years now.
But a lot of teams have not moved to the
new persistency.
So how this topic came into our queue is
like at first we got a meeting request
from the sales team.
This one a sales team where they decided
to have a POC about the.
for their business subject,
they wanted to move it to this new
persistency and we got a requirement to
support this particular migration.
So we were also not so sure, like, okay,
by we are being involved,
but it is mostly like they actually
planned for a POC in 26 or 26.
I'm not so sure whether it is already in
productive stage that we have still see,
but they did a POC in the beginning and
then we had a design review also planned
and most of a lot of business LOBs were
involved in this particular design
discussion.
And when we listened about this design
discussion, we also attended it.
This is one of the topic that is in
today's handover.
There are actually mainly 2 topics
involved.
First one is about the sales long test
replacement to the new persistency.
We were involved in the design
discussions and also design sign off was
done.
and they went there with the POC and
maybe I don't know whether they have
already done into a productive system.
And we are not, as of now,
whatever we have checked,
we are not aware about any further effort
needed from our side.
But we have to also still cheque with
this sales team whether is there any
action item from our side. Mostly,
we don't know if they have already moved
to the.
the productive landscape,
then maybe they are expecting some tests
from our side as well to see whether
everything is working fine. From our end,
this is maybe this is what that is
expected.
So we are also not so sure whether there
is any,
this is why we have not also planned
anything.
for this particular backlog because
already designed review everything was
completed and there was no further ask
from other LOBs. So this is the one topic,
sales long text replacement.
So this is completely where we don't have
any development effort as of now.
They have not also asked any support from
our side as well.
So when we listen to this particular
design discussion,
then we also thought like how it is
handled in purchase order business object.
So we also have notes at the header level
and also at the item level as well,
and which is widely used by the customers.
Then we also had a thought like, okay,
then maybe similar approach have to be
used by us as well,
because we are anyway planning to come up
with new modernization concept and
everything.
And the currently the way we are handling
nodes is not the right approach.
So what is done as of now is that in our
APIs and all if you check.
We are, we have built something,
so SAP script team has provided this
enterprise search help views to access
the nodes using these enterprise search
help views,
but this was strictly only for enterprise
search help,
not it should not be used for any other
purposes.
But this concept is mainly like they are
doing a kind of,
they are dumping the data into another
table and then this ESH views are
actually built on top of that.
So which means that sometimes we also get
some inconsistencies in some systems.
because this data is not moved to this
new enterprise search help tables.
This is why we sometimes we are not able
to access the notes and that.
Sometimes the system is not prepared
properly, then also this happens.
And but it was clearly mentioned in their
wiki guideline as well that this should
not be used for any other purposes.
But when we,
when I checked our APIs and everything,
I could see that, for example,
our purchase order not TP view.
This is actually built on top of this
plain long test view and this I text
object plain long test.
This is actually built on top of this ESH.
table. Yeah,
and this is actually a replicated SAP
script long text tables,
which means that whenever there is a data
replication issue,
sometimes this particular table is not
complete.
Then also this doesn't work fine.
So the guidelines support using these SAP
script.
Yeah,
for serious based search as already
mentioned in this particular wiki.
So we also thought about, yeah,
this is not the right approach.
We have to actually come up with,
maybe we also have to move to the new
persistency.
So recently during this modernization
topic discussion, we also found that.
In that case,
we cannot use the same concept in the
modernised APIs as well.
So that is how this is the second topic
that is coming into picture where we are
actually thinking about moving into new
persistency,
similar to how the sales long test team
has done.
We also want to check, okay,
how far it has gone and what are the
issues that they have faced.
And maybe we have to actually also cheque
with them how, I mean,
about their experience as well.
So this is support,
I just put a screenshot about how this is
actually currently.
done.
We are actually doing it on top of I text
objects plain long test,
which is actually on this ESH tables.
And this is actually completely depending
upon the replicated data.
And also another issue is that this also
doesn't support this formatting of the
notes.
For example,
if there are some formats that they are
followed and when we take the data from
these replicated data,
it doesn't follow that same format.
So this is one of the issue that we have
also found because we also got some
customer tickets as well.
So a few things are such kind of things
are also not.
Quotient with this current approach.
So, um...
Impact on modernization topic is, yeah,
I so mostly Vikrant is kind of working on
this modernization topic,
Vikrant from our team,
World of Eleven team,
and then we me and Nils had a discussion
with him about this particular topic,
like...
They also have some plan to include most
of the reuse components in the initial
phase like C2702.
So minimum viable scope is already
planned, but for North wrap reuse,
if this moving into new persistency is a.
prerequisite for that,
then currently it is actually done as a
soft commitment,
but I'm sure that we have to actually
start working on it already so that we
will come up with the proper solution for
it in the later releases. Yeah,
so this is the current status as of now
and
We also had,
we also checked like from procurement
side,
there is already one team who handles
this notes to reuse topic,
Bangalore 4 team, which belongs to Vishal.
Then we also have to actually align on
this particular topic.
Like even if we are moving to new
persistency and we will be,
there are very less business objects
which are more to a new persistency as of
now. And in future as well,
other procurement business objects also
have to move to new persistency.
And in that case, we need to have some.
guideline that has to be formed and it
can be a phased approach.
At first I mean we can think about moving
this purchase order specific notes into
this new persistency and then later maybe
other business objects can also follow
the same.
But we don't,
on this nursery use topic in procurement
area,
there is a separate team for that already.
So we may have to, you know,
align with that particular team as well.
This is what we found as of now.
Okay, so any questions as of now?
Okay, if no, I will go further,
more deeper into the topic.
So they have already,
SAP's SAP script team has already
published the guidelines,
how to move to the new persistency. Yes,
Shweta.
Yeah, just regarding the first topic,
right, the sales and billing document,
long text migration.
So is there any development expected from
Yeah.
the PO team here or our role is limited
to review and testing and providing
No.
feedback on the sales implementation,
right, if I understand this correctly?
Yeah, this is our understanding as well.
Yeah.
Mhm.
We participate in the design discussions
and also design sign off was already
completed and they continued with their
POC.
I doubt that whether this is already
available in 2608. I'm not so sure.
They have not.
come back to us.
So the only open point is that, I mean,
during the design discussion as well,
we also found that somewhere we may have
some dependency because in sales,
not long text as well,
there is a concept about referencing,
you know, referencing of the notes.
So the reference can be taken from the
previous document or maybe one or two
levels below that or something.
And there is some,
this is where they were not sure how it
can be considered because there were few
challenges in achieving this referencing
topic.
And they mentioned that if all business
object who are being referenced when,
so maybe I'll come to this referencing
topic later in purchase order,
but similar concept or more complicated
concept is there in a sales side,
but when...
all business objects who are involved in
this referencing is not more to this new
persistency,
then sales team will not be able to
achieve that full feature parity.
You know,
they cannot unless until the all business
object, for example,
if they are telling that in sales,
they are telling that that notes is
referenced from the previous document.
but that particular business object is
not more to the new persistency,
then this cannot be marked as completed
or something. They mentioned that.
But further,
we don't have much information.
In that case, also,
this echo long text can be actually used
as a reference in their case.
But they never forced any business object
to move to this new persistency because
of this requirement. It is just that they.
..
that okay, there is something like this.
So that is where we had this in our
backlog.
But when this modernization topic is came
into picture,
then we decided to take it further.
But to answer your question,
sales document side,
I'm not expecting any development effort
from our side.
Mostly a testing effort is maximum that I
can think about. Yeah.
That may, yeah, so maybe.
Yeah, maybe on this Fiori reuse component.
So what you said is completely right.
So basically,
we should cheque whether stuff works as
before, but if it does not work,
then we have to look
what needs to be adopted that, well,
it works again.
And this especially would be especially
the case where we have direct selects on
the old subscript tables for any reason.
So my understanding of what's a
Yes, yeah.
showed us or told us is like if you use
the standard APIs of the old subscript,
so the function group, function modules,
so then you,
it's no matter where the persistency is,
you will get the text, you know,
for you it's invisible.
But as soon as you directly select on the
database tables, for sure,
once you have migrated, it's gone.
So then there will be nothing in those
STXH tables that you will find.
And it's more like finding exactly those
cases where this might
might apply.
And if we have in our reuse component,
for example,
cases like this where we have to address
it.
Yeah.
So, what, that's right. Also,
from to add to that point, when they do,
Yes.
when in sales side as well,
when they are actually moving to this new
persistency,
what happens is that they are kind of,
instead of using this STXH and STXL table.
they will be also writing into a new
persistency,
but there is also a silent data migration
which is also happening.
And unless and until the silent data
migration is completed,
normally they will be actually writing to
both persistency,
the old subscript tables.
and also to the new persistency table as
well,
unless until the sign in data migration
is completed.
But then all these old function modules,
like read text and all these function
modules,
will still work correctly because it is
already handled in their APIs that it has
to look for.
New persistency tables,
and if the silent data migration is not
completed,
right to move both database both tables.
This is this is already handled by them,
yeah, but if you have any cases,
if we have direct select to these
subscript tables.
then it will not work.
But as far as we see,
or in most of the cases,
I guess we are directly using this
function modules or the class APIs
provided by them. So in that case,
it should work fine. Yes, Hasan,
you have a question.
Okay.
Is this new persistency like a GBT tables
are we talking about are completely
different tables not to reuse or not so?
Which table you are talking about?
We have not reuse tables, right?
Both tables, SGBT underscore tables.
Mm.
So is it those tables which we are
talking about or?
Yes, I think this new persistency,
that is a separate table design that is
Ohh.
actually even sales team has come up with.
I think these is GBT related one is also
somehow linked with this new persistency.
Yeah.
Okay, okay, but it is completely new,
you are saying.
But, but...
And it's even application specific tables.
So my understanding in the end,
Yeah.
it's even like the applications decide on
the design of, not completely the design,
but how the tables are cut.
So, you could...
So this is the STD.
I guess this has the details.
Mhm.
They have came up with their own table
concept and then they also mark in this
notes reuse component that okay they are
using these new persistence tables.
I,
so this is the table structure they have
come up with, I guess. Yeah, no,
this is the old one.
There is another one they have came up
with, and...
Now, this is the old way of doing it.
Actually, this SDD has, okay,
this is a new persistency related. Yeah,
so they have came up with two options
about the new persistency design,
and then we actually decide on one of
them.
Yeah,
but whatever you mention is is the BT
that particular persistency table is also
somehow linked with this.
I'm not too sure, but yeah,
this is somehow linked with it.
So also from the PO side,
is it like we are going to work on this
migration part of like from our whatever
the text we have stored in SDXH and SDXL
to be migrated to the new tables?
Is that what is backlog is about?
The second backlog is for that.
The second item that we are talking of,
the first one was about the sales one.
This where we are not expecting much
Mhm.
development effort,
but mostly the testing or if we have a
Mmhm.
direct select from SDF such tables or
something that we have to work up on it.
Second one is about purchase order
specific nodes where we will be moving to
the new persistency.
And we have to come up with an idea about
like how it has to be done.
And also we have to also align with this
procurement nodes reuse owners as well
about this architecture guideline.
Also,
is it like going forward the new POs text
which are going to get created,
will they get automatically?
We should change some approach like in
the coding so that it goes to new tables
or will it continue as is and we only
work on the migration job which will
transfer,
keep transferring the nodes from SDXs to
it.
New tables.
So the new ones,
what I understand is the new ones will be,
I mean,
unless until this complete migration
process is completed,
it will be returned to both.
Once and that is DM is completed,
then only to the.
New persistence is what I understand.
Yeah,
so what is the final expected outcome of
Yeah, Yan.
this backlog?
Is it a design proposal or a feasibility
or an actual implementation of this?
Because this is not a customer facing
feature, right? If I understand,
it's more on the internal modernization
that we are doing to the subscript. Yeah.
No, it, it, it depends a little bit,
so yeah, you're you're first of all right,
so this is at least so one is for sure we
need to be safe on the usage of the.
the sales long text.
So this was basically the first backlog
that was basically issued by the SD
colleagues. They said we migrate.
So this is for sure we migrate and you
need to be sure that.
If you consume SD long text that in your
application,
this works as before so that we don't
have regressions with regards to that.
That is one step. The second step is,
so when we have seen this,
Yeah.
and actually this migration is kind of a
logical step in terms of, let's say,
put it as modernization.
So if we plan in the purchase order to
use the new RAP reuse component for the
nodes,
a precondition is also the migration.
So this is then what Jiss also mentioned.
This is kind of a soft commitment as of
now. And for sure, we don't want to
Ten.
handicraft something that writes into the,
that uses the old APIs only because we
lack now, for example, this migration.
So this is kind of a precondition.
And then what also was mentioned,
so in terms of.
BDC, so data products, for example,
it's also kind of a precondition if we
want to enable that text can be extracted.
Also, then you're only on top of this one,
you really can put proper CDS views that
can be extracted. However, this is
A
not kind of a project or a concept that
you directly can execute because we kind
of only have the blueprint from SD.
We can look up what did they do and then
decide on how we can transfer that
concept to procurement.
OK, so are there is SP.
And, and it.
Sorry, and is it in procurement for sure?
It hasn't, you know, it's broader,
Mhm.
like our current text object that we have
is Echo and Echo,
so this means it's not only purchase
order, it's then, you know, well,
all the other contracts scheduling
agreement.
Yeah.
about central procurement.
I don't know whether it's also reused.
But this does not affect only the
purchase order.
So we're somehow not isolated here.
So we need to, yeah.
discuss or make everybody aware on the
concept and what we plan and what we plan
first and then second.
So my understanding is like then we are
targeting a individual job or something,
Yeah.
a separate report which can just shift
the data from old tables to new tables is
what I understand from this conversion
till now.
Are we going to make any core changes
also?
which will affect the way of saving or
reading the data is what my other
question is.
Uh, so, so, as I said,
so the the the persistency is hidden.
hidden by the APIs of the basis nodes
functionality, first of all.
So this means we would not now change
anything in our old applications with
regards to that,
because the assumption is it just works
as before.
So even if you now write into a new
persistency,
It would, yeah, you would,
where it reads from and where it writes
to, you don't, as you basically,
if you call the function model,
you don't know,
so it's kind of a configuration below.
Okay.
I don't know exactly what you then need
to implement,
Yeah.
whether you need to then implement a
class or something that's...
that writes into the persistency for sure.
You most likely find it in that design
Okay.
document.
Yeah, also in this wiki,
what subscript team has provided about
the new buses moving to new persistency,
it has most of the details,
like what all things have to be changed
and what all things we have to manually
change, like for example,
direct select have to be changed,
but otherwise whatever was selected.
using this old APIs or function modules
will work as it is.
Even if you move to new persistency,
we don't have to do any adoption is what
I understand.
But whenever we have some things,
a few things like, for example,
this particular place where we are
directly built on top of this ESH view.
These things have to be changed,
but maybe we have to actually use this
node reuse business object itself in such
cases. Yes, Rajesh, you have a question?
Yeah, so here in the slide itself,
we are saying text objects, EKKO, PO,
are used not only by purchase order team,
so is it possible to move to new
persistency only for PO text?
So that means we have to still discover.
by looking at existing solution that
whether we can move to new persistency or
not is it?
How are we answering this question?
This is not clear to me.
No,
these are actually a part of the research
topic, actually, because Rajesh,
this particular topic was never touched.
Mhm.
Moving to the new persistency,
it purchase order was just there as a
backlog,
because we when we attended the sales
long test migration design review.
Thank you.
Then we actually found about all these
things and then we actually thought about,
okay,
when we move to this new modernised
purchase order concept,
then we have to actually,
even if we have to use this,
reuse nodes business subject,
then we have to actually move to new
persistency. But.
to move to this new persistency and also
to come up with the scope for the same
because in our case, this echo and echo,
well,
we might be the same text objects are
used to buy multiple business objects.
Then at what level we can actually do
this and what are the possibilities.
is what we have to actually see.
So maybe when I go through these known
issues,
and also I have some more points listed
later,
these are the known things that we found
during our internal discussion,
we found few things,
which I actually tried to put it over
here. But for this particular topic,
we have to actually start with the
research,
like kind of discovery or research itself.
because we are not yet sure what are the
capabilities of current purchase order
notes topic and also what are things that
supported in public cloud.
So what are questions that we had in our
mind?
It is already listed down and we have to
actually kind of do some more research.
and then come up with a plan for this.
Mm.
That will be part of the scope of 2702.
I thought when you explained that this
could be relevant only for the modern
view, but not for the current view.
Your current view will work.
Even if we move to new persistency,
the current view will still work because
this is the understanding that we have,
I love you.
Okay.
but we have to actually cheque how does
it work. We have,
because we have not done a research on
this particular new moving to new
persistency yet, so we are not able to.
Actually say that whether there will be
any impact on existing things or
something that that is my problem,
but as per whatever I see from the SAP
script new persistency wiki,
most of the APIs are actually handling
both,
but when it is completely moving to new
persistency, what about the old?
APIs, these things we still have to see.
So whatever, yeah,
maybe we will discuss what are the open
points or what are the topics that we
Yeah.
Okay.
already know about and then we can
discuss it further about your questions.
Okay, yeah.
Does that make sense? Okay,
because now we are talking without
Shut, yeah.
actually discussing the current problems,
yeah.
Yes, yes.
OK, so.
So as it is mentioned over here,
the wiki is already provided.
It's not only about just moving to new
persistency and build CDS on top of that.
It is also about like we have to actually
first cheque what are the functionalities
that are supported.
And we didn't have any backlog for this
analysis in the last release.
So this will be a part of this new
release and that research and everything
have to be done.
For this,
so one thing is sales had also mentioned
about referencing of the text, like,
for example,
there can be multiple level of
referencing, like, for example,
there is one document and that C,
and then actually this is actually
reference.
from this is actually a full-on document
and then it is coming from another
previous business subject and something
like that.
So there can be multiple level of
referencing. And similarly,
even PO actually support referencing of
the text,
but maybe it is not as complicated like
Sales,
but we have to also understand how this
referencing of text work in the.
Currently how it works because we were
also internally discussing and we are
also not so sure how this referencing
work in SAP,
S1A public cloud in purchase order.
So currently what all things are
supported we are also not so sure.
So for this particular part we have to
actually cheque the existing scope about
the referencing part and if.
I'm also not so sure whether referencing
is allowed in public cloud.
So if it is allowed in public cloud,
then how to incorporate it in the new
persistency,
which means that when we do the
referencing,
the original text lies in another
business subject,
not in the current business subject.
So, how,
how say what is the approach the sales
team has done to consider these
referencing of this long text object is
what we have to also understand if
purchase order is also supporting
referencing, then third thing is that.
The we use the text objects echo and echo,
so if you cheque this S.T.X.H.S.
Excel tables,
you can see that there are several text
IDs which are mentioned,
but all of them are not used,
and what we are to actually first see is..
.
What is the current solution, and is it,
and as this is used by multiple business
subjects,
is it possible to move to new
persistently only for PO text?
And we also have to cheque whether the
text IDs that are used by PO.
Is it actually shared by other business
objects as well?
Is it also used by other business objects?
This is like about checking the existing
solution,
what all text IDs are used in PO and
whether it is,
is it possible to move only these IDs?
Then is it also possible to use?
So another question that we also had is
like whenever we have checked,
our understanding is that to use this
nodes wrap reuse layer,
we need to have more to the new
persistency.
But is there any possibility to use nodes
wrap reuse layer without moving to new
persistency?
This actually have to be checked with the
core nodes team.
This is something we still have to do
some analysis,
but as per our understanding,
this is not possible.
But we can also see that most of the
business objects have not moved to this
new persistency.
Then we are also thinking,
is there any workaround available or is
there any possibility to move it to?
A new wrap reuse layer without moving to
new persistency.
This is something that we can actually
cheque with North Team.
This is some of the one of the open point,
then further this thing is that about.
Okay,
so this is also mentioned in their
subscript new persistency wiki.
They also mentioned about the text
references.
This is not actually supported
out-of-the-box. So we have to actually,
maybe someone has to go through this wiki
in detail.
and then clarify about this with the
nodes team and also understanding from
sales team is also makes sense to like,
you know, how they handle such situations.
Then another question that we had, I mean,
that came up during our internal
discussion is that is it possible for
public cloud customers to create their
own?
header or item text,
like their own new text IDs can be,
can they introduce new text IDs so that
they can have a new one more tab over
there to enter new text.
So is it possible to do that?
Is it allowed?
Is there an SSCUI provided for this?
That has to be checked.
Then about referencing,
how referencing is done in purchase order.
As of now,
there are few 2 IMGs or like about
copying or referencing for header text
and also for item text that is in IMG
that is an IMG view for this.
Here actually for header text.
So for example,
here we are actually telling that target
header text.
This is actually these are the
referencing source text.
We are also not so sure how it works and
is it supported in public cloud.
This is also something we have to
actually find what is the current scope.
Then another one is.
Which all business objects are using,
so this I already mentioned the last
slide,
which all business objects are using
these text objects, echo and echo,
whether we can actually...
Yeah,
so cheque the business objects other than
purchase order, which is supported,
which is actually using the same text
objects, echo and echo.
So we have to actually cheque this,
the current scope about this. And also,
this is something,
this is more about like the previous
slide itself where I have mentioned about
is it possible to.
move PO business object into new
persistency,
like without affecting other business
objects. For example,
there's a transaction called SC75 where
we actually can see all the object text
objects and the text IDs linked with,
I mean, text objects can be seen.
So if there is a persistency hand,
so there is a field called persistency
handler.
If there is a class mentioned in that,
this means that those objects have
actually moved to new persistency.
So for example,
here you can see that for sales header
text and item text,
you can see the persistency handler.
Similarly for material master,
also product master,
they have actually moved to new
persistency.
So this one is this assignment is at text
object level,
but is it is also possible to have a
persistency class at the text ID level as
well.
So if the same text object like echo and
echo is used by multiple business
subjects.
But at text ID level, if we can say that,
okay,
this is only specific to purchase order,
then there is also an option to do this
persistency handler.
So I could see it in SC75 at text ID.
So if you can see here,
there is a tab called text ID.
So at text ID level also,
we can have a persistence handler.
So this is something we are to actually
analyse in detail as a part of this
particular backlog. Then, okay,
this is 1 topic then.
Is it pause? Okay,
last 6th one is if it is possible to come
up with a solution only for purchase
order text and later adopted by other
business searches. So this one,
I need to update this particular line
because we already had a meeting with
Vikas and Chinmay about this because we
wanted to actually make them aware that
there is some.
topic discussion going on like this about
moving to new persistency.
And then also echo and echo tech subjects
are already shared by multiple business
subjects,
which means that other teams in
procurement will also be affected.
So this is something we already had a
call with Vikas and he is now currently
aware about this particular topic.
So we have to also...
whether it's possible to come up with
some architecture guideline for different
business subject is what we are actually
checking.
This is something Vikas also mentioned
that we may have to cheque it in that
detail.
It is not only about moving purchase
order nodes to a new.
Persistency.
Give me a second, I...
Okay,
so these are the questions that I have
mentioned and here I also about yes,
Rajesh.
No,
when you say it's not only purchase order
but other business objects,
but what is the scope for us?
Is it only purchase order or even for
other business objects? I mean,
So, Arber.
I hope it's not, but yeah.
Yeah, for us, see, for us,
we want to actually for purchase,
at least for PO modernization topic,
our actually idea is to have moving to
new persistency and then,
but when we go dig deeper in this
architecture guideline,
this is where we are actually seeing that,
okay,
same text object is used by multiple
business structures.
then what is the impact?
That's why these open questions,
clarifying these open questions is very
important before we come to,
currently the scope is not finalised on
this, Rajesh, because as far as I see,
we can't finalise this scope.
over here as of now until unless we've
come up with what all things are
supported in public cloud and echo and
echo text of just like what all business
objects are getting affected.
We need to have these details as of now.
That is missing. Okay.
Once we come up with an idea of that,
then we will actually,
definitely there is a separate team for
nose reuse topic as far as I know,
Bangalore 4 team is,
and Vikas also mentioned that Bangalore 4
team is actually responsible for that. So.
But everything have to be aligned with
that particular team,
definitely when we come up with some
suggestions.
Yeah, so I mean,
if there is a deadline by which we have
to migrate,
I think it's not only purchase orders,
but purchase contracts,
schedule agreements,
which are using these notes on EKKO and
EKPO.
I think they would also suffer the same,
you know, requirement, I think.
But then if they have not planned,
then how are they going to?
You know, incorporate this, so...
Yeah,
this is something that's why we also
Jammula.
involved Vikas when we saw this,
that seeing that this is actually going
deeper,
because that's why we also included Vikas.
We don't know whether we have to also
later,
maybe it will come up as a cross topic.
I am not so sure.
Um, at least, um, what is your opinion,
LS?
Yeah.
Yeah,
so this is this is exactly kind of the
issue. So, when we started with that one,
it was more like, okay,
if we want to use this reuse component,
this reuse component,
we need to do the migration and this.
in the 1st place applies for the purchase
order. However,
No.
if you then look into the topic,
you see it's much broader.
It's like an iceberg, you know, you see,
you only see the tip and then you see,
The.
Correct.
so if we, if we want to migrate this,
does this make sense at all that we only
migrate the purchase order stuff because
We have the other ones are also basically
affected.
What about maybe not even the echo echo,
but also I info record, for example,
or the purchase requisition?
So does it has, so is it then?
Yeah.
kind of a beneficial if we say, oh,
we do this in one project or one big
project,
or is it better to have it like just
mentioned, like a phased approach,
then we start with,
is it possible at all that we start only
with purchase order texts, or is it...
Yeah,
is it more suitable to have it on the,
you said, the echo, echo level,
but you know,
also an aspect is now we separated
basically our business object now also
into different structure packages.
So is it even...
Vish from our side that all is in one
table,
or is it like every every application
should have this its own table?
This is quite,
it's basically not so clear, and...
Um...
Also the, I mean,
the first idea of this one,
it basically was initiated by the sales
team when they came up with the thing.
Because it's like when they showed this
to us, we first of all saw, ah,
this is basically exactly what we also
need.
And sales is quite similar to us,
so they maybe even more complicated,
but basically have the same issues like
we have.
So they also have old legacy code and
stuff like this. So this, like,
that was there are,
when we saw this first, we said,
let's park this concept that they have,
and then
look into it once we look into the
modernization of the purchase order
because this is maybe exactly what we
also need to do.
This does not directly clarify now the
scope,
but maybe how we came to this topic or
the was the approach to of this to this
topic.
Mm.
And this will also come into picture
later as well because of this BDC and AI
topics, all these things,
because notes will not be a part of it
unless until we move to new persistency.
That's why we thought at least we start
with some analysis from our side.
And then, you know, based on the analysis,
we can actually say that, okay,
this is possible or not possible in the
upcoming release as 2702 or 2708,
whatever it is,
we have to actually have some money.
So this is why we thought that this.
backlog might be needed to do start with
analysis.
Yes.
Maybe we are just touching the door,
but if still late we have to actually dig
deeper in this.
Yeah,
so just wanted to clarify what is the end
goal for 2702? So exactly,
like we can still be in discovery phase.
We may not deliver anything,
but we would have discovered much more.
We would have maybe come up with some
kind of a...
you know,
concept that can be applied not only for
Mm-hmm.
PO, but some,
some all other objects in procurement,
something like that.
Is that the boundary or what is the
boundary for us?
What is what is expected in 2002 at the
end, yeah?
And.
So as I mentioned,
the information that I got from Vikrant
Hey.
is that 2702,
there is a soft commit fund for nodes
reuse. But if this is not possible,
we have to make it transparent to the
team.
This is, I mean, we don't, I mean,
I'm not aware about any clear-cut,
you know,
guideline for this particular backlog.
We only know that,
so when they asked us about effort
estimation, what is effort estimation?
But currently we don't have the scope of
finalized. If it is only about, okay,
if it is possible from framework side to
segregate only purchase order specific
text, I mean, text IDs.
to the new persistency.
I'm just assuming like that if it is
possible after the analysis is done,
if you are finding that purchase order
specific,
this one is actually separately used.
None of the other business subjects are
affected.
When we are moving to new persistency,
what is the effort estimation?
So this is the effort estimation that we
have mentioned over here.
like 80 PDs and plus some 15 PD or
something additional if we need to do
some additional analysis of 15 to 20 PD
extra is what,
so around 100 PD is what we are assuming.
But first to come up with the scope.
Also, even for 2702,
first we have to actually clarify all
these open points and then only we can
actually say. Maybe Rajesh,
it is also better if you align with the
Ruediger about this because from
engineering side.
We just want to see whether we can
incorporate nodes in the modernised API
Mhm.
is what I see from this is my perspective.
But so for that we have to do start with
the research topic and analysis and then
we say, okay,
this is not possible by 2702 or is it
possible by 2702 is what we have to.
Actually, see.
Okay.
Yeah.
Then this is very open, yeah, so yeah.
Yes,
it is very open and I want you to also
Yeah.
make it transparent to Ruediger and
others.
Yeah.
And that's why there is a lot of
coordination is needed in this particular
topic. Also, we have to also,
whenever these open questions are
Can you answer?
clarified,
we need to have a common meeting,
including this procurement notes reuse
team.
Right.
plus modernization topic like Vikrant and
team and also Vikas and Chinmay,
Okay.
everyone have to be involved in this
particular discussion once the open
Yeah.
questions are clarified. Also here,
I try to put the contact details because
I also want to explain one more slide,
then we can actually come to the further
discussion.
If you see here,
you can see that for sales long text
Call.
topic,
I was actually in touch with Chris and
The best.
Karen Fan,
but mostly Chris is involved from the
development side.
He actually helped me to come up with
this scope. You know,
so they were mentioning around 70 PD,
but I also added some more extra PDs from
our side.
And also as a buffer and maybe around 100
PDF, everything it will come around that,
yeah.
Then from Apache PO architecture side,
we also want to get involved because this
is also affecting the core modernization.
And then Vikrant is actually from the.
be a modernization topic,
then I will also try,
we have to also include this BLR 0 for
team. And this is subscript conduct.
We can actually find it in this
particular wiki.
We were not in touch with them yet,
so that's why I have not provided
specific names.
And then I have also provided a rough
estimate.
I just estimated 5 PD for sales long test
step replacement.
topic,
if any testing or any other effort is
needed from our side.
Then for scope finalization,
around 15 PDs from the new team,
like your team, and from our team,
like I am sure that there will be a lot
of meetings that may.
might be needed to clarify a few things
or review the findings from the research
topic and everything.
So I just mentioned that 10 PD from our
side and also implementation testing and
everything around ATPD is what this as of
now we planned.
I try to summarise the action items over
here, like for the first topic,
about the sales long test topic,
whether do we have to have any testing
effort from our side,
testing or any other effort is needed
from our side.
This has to be actually checked with
Chris and team,
whether they are already done.
delivered everything in 2608 and if yes,
do the CNE testing effort,
then that has to be clarified.
Then we have to actually investigate
about the PO text referencing scope and
we have to also cheque whether what all
things are actually currently supported
in public cloud,
whether customers can create their own.
header or text items, etc.
And whether the SSUIs are already
provided to the customers or not,
those things have to be checked.
Then how the referencing is handled by
sales team.
We have to also cheque with us,
with Chris and team.
And then we have to also cheque like how
this echo and echo.
or text objects are shared by other
business subject,
then is it possible to move to without
moving to new persistency?
Is it possible to do this, reuse notes,
APIs?
And then we also want to see how to
handle.
Okay,
clarify how to handle the text references
with new persistence APIs.
I think I have already mentioned that
before. Okay, and then in AC 75,
like whether we can actually do the
persistency class maintenance,
whether at ID level or text object level,
which option can we choose and.
is maintaining a text ID level will solve
this dependency with other business
objects is what we can actually check.
Then once we these open topics are
clarified,
we need to have a common meeting
including Vikas and Chinmay and others.
Also,
we have to include that other BLR sort of
14. I think I have not mentioned that.
I will add that once we have to have come
up with a reuse concept to move to the
new persistency,
which is aligned with the BLR sort of 14.
This is actually mentioned.
Then also we have to also align with
Vikrant and team once this is actually
finally the scope is finalized. Yeah.
And we will have more action items if
needed.
But this is like something rough idea
that I had.
I just tried to put it in a table so that
Yeah.
maybe it can be useful for you.
Actually, it would be cool if we could,
would get as far as the sales team at
that point in time when we pitched in,
right? So they had their concept,
Yes, it was.
But,
how do I use the idea of some patterns?
they had then the design, they,
and they did also proof of concept on
Mhm.
that stuff.
Just a second.
And then I guess also for our solution in
the end,
it is like that we anyhow also need kind
of the same review that the sales team
The other ones.
did.
So we also need to inform all the
applications because it's basically the
same for the purchase order.
Thank you.
Who?
It's used in many places and we at least
need to inform the other applications.
Ohh.
and they also need to do some,
maybe some regression testing. I mean,
now know it from the sales and I suppose
there's not much of a difference, but...
What is it?
Yeah,
we also would need to do the same thing.
So it's like, first of all, internally,
we need to align the concept and then
also roll the concept out in all of us
for.
So, I think this is this.
I didn't follow the first action item.
Cheque if any testing effort is required
from left and shift.
Yeah, so there are two topics, Rajesh.
So first one is about the sales long text,
Oh.
the POC. They have done a POC in 2608,
and this is where we were also involved
in the design review and everything.
And after that, we did the design review,
On the screen.
sign off was done.
And after that,
we are not sure like whether there are
any action items from our side.
They also didn't mention anything and
they didn't come back to us as well.
So we have to,
if we have to close that particular
backlog completely,
we have to actually cheque with them
whether there is any other effort
required from our side,
whether any regression tests or something
has to be done. We are not aware.
This is something that we can actually
cheque with them.
And we are also not so sure whether they
are already in productive usage or not.
So this is something we have to actually
clarify with the Chris and other team.
This is for the first backlog.
This is the only action item for the
first backlog that I have mentioned.
Second backlog is specific to PO.
Be on nodes of persistency.
Do you have this meeting discussions what
you did with sales team and so where
should we start? How do we know?
Do we go about simply asking or should we
have some background?
We only have a backlog and I think the
backlog is already mentioned in one of
the slide is already mentioned.
I think it is linked with that aha
Mhm.
requirement as well.
The initial aha requirement,
I think you will be able to see all the
links over there.
So this is the backlog that I have. Also,
they have,
I have saved the design document in the
latest version.
Thank you.
I will also cheque whether they have
shared a new recording of the meeting.
There were.
two or three review meetings for this.
I need to see whether they have stored it
somewhere. But yeah,
this is the latest SDD that we have.
So we did an offering review of this
design document and then we were supposed
to put some questions in the.
this one and then they answer to us in
during the meeting.
So the design document is actually well
explained, I would say.
So going through the design document will
help to get some understanding about what
is the method that they have tried.
And also maybe an alignment with Chris
and Team will also help.
And, basically, I would suppose also with.
..
with the colleagues from Bangalore 4 on.
So first of all,
they do the the the notes reuse and the
in the box, but also I mean,
they're owning the purchase requisition.
So I mean, this is also very similar,
I guess.
So, if, if we,
if you receive texts from sales order,
they normally should come through the
purchase requisition, I guess.
I am to.
Okay.
I mean, from the implementation point,
so we have implemented reuse components
So...
for most of our applications,
but in this case,
along with the implementation of reuse or
checking whether it works with the legacy
PO,
we have to cheque if the existing text
can be migrated into the latest reuse
component.
The additional tasks that I see here,
right?
Yeah, Christopher,
I would say that there are a lot of
topics under this and it is also better
to also split it into smaller sends.
And that will be also helpful because we
didn't even start with this particular
What?
topic at all. So.
That's good.
Yeah,
so it is better to like whatever action
PI.
item or whatever topic that we have to
cheque linked with it.
I think it does make sense to split it
into small,
small parts and then it will be helpful
during the analysis phase.
You mentioned PO team was involved in the
STD review,
then you also say that you need to test
it further. That's one of the bad,
you know, action items.
You also participated in, yeah.
Ohh.
That is for the sales long texting.
So who exactly who participated here from
the PO team?
It.
Nils and hi.
Okay, yourself. Okay.
Then here you also say that you need to
Yes.
follow a similar approach before we
consider nodes reuse component in
modernization topic.
I mean,
you already decide to take that approach
and then we consider the nodes to use
component. I mean,
if you clearly outline which is the
better approach,
then makes life easier for us.
So right now we are not able to figure
whether we are in a...
A better position to do any take any
concrete decisions, because you...
No,
our understanding is also that if you
have to use the nodes to reuse APIs,
then we might have to move to a new
Mhm.
persistency. This is our understanding,
but I don't know whether there is any,
we never contacted this nodes reuse team.
to clarify this, okay,
so we have not taken this backlog at all.
Okay.
So this was never,
so that's what all these things were
actually a part of this particular hot
topic and this was not taken at all.
So this is why I have mentioned it over
here.
The.
So, do I understand then? I mean,
maybe I am coming back again.
Is sales long text using new persistency?
Is it using the nodes approach?
The nodes reuse component approach? No,
right?
They are not using the nodes reuse
component.
Nils, do you know about it?
But I'm actually not sure what they,
so you mean in terms of their their up
Ohh.
object?
Yes, I mean, here is, you know,
when they migrated the long text, yeah.
Oh.
Mhm.
I remember that they were also a part of
that review.
Mm.
I mean,
you have this long text week and doc X,
right?
Is it mentioned anywhere that they are
using the most reuse?
Can you please click on it and...
Which one are you talking?
SDD new persistency for long text written.
Yes.
This one.
Oh.
Yeah,
I think that here at least they do not
mention that this is a reason for them.
So I guess they only mentioned the
Mmh.
accessibility of the text,
if I'm not mistaken.
Yeah.
And probably it is not used because if
they had used a reuse component,
So.
there must be some mention of this, right?
This is the latest document, right?
Mm.
It's not some version which you took
earlier. This is a living document,
No,
this is the latest version that I am
I hope.
aware about because they have sent in the
this one that, yeah,
Okay.
they this is the latest version that I am.
I mean,
when you are discussing with Chris,
you will be able to get the latest
Yeah, it is.
version.
I think this is the latest version that I
am aware about. I don't have.
access to any of other latest versions.
This is the latest one that I'm aware.
Yeah.
Alright,
and not to use component exist in our
Okay.
procurement team alone, right?
Is it is it something?
And, no, no, wait. So,
there are two different ones.
This is always complicated. So,
there's a nodes reuse component that was
Ohh.
built by the procurement team.
This is for the consumption in the fuel,
the procurement Fiori apps.
Okay.
Only.
Yeah, so,
and this is this is also where I
mentioned him,
so this is owned by by Vikas and Team,
so Bangalore Four, and this is also where,
well,
we might look into whether there are,
for example, selects on this XTH, XTXL,
and stuff like that,
so they need to cheque it.
But there's now a let's a reuse component
from the basis team, a reuse component,
like a dependent object that you can can
include into a natively into a business
Mhm.
object.
So this is not the reuse component that
was so far used in
in at least not from the.
So we also use reuse component here,
but not that the same.
That's something different.
Okay.
And exactly this reuse component,
this one requires most likely this new
persistency because they're built on top
of.
Um...
CDS views that then build up from the
database tables.
Thank you.
Ohh.
But this is not the reuse component that
is in that we have. We have also one,
but it's procurement developed one.
Yeah.
Yeah,
so the the basis component does not
provide the UI.
It only offers the wrap object and then
the.
Not completely sure.
I don't know it to be honest.
Not.
Mhm.
So I know that, for example,
in the supplier confirmation,
this is included.
Mhm.
Whether there is a,
so ideally there's also a UI from the
reuse components in the end.
So that's then the kind of the benefits
that you have that you inherit then also
a UI once this is available.
K.
And I think this also applies for the
output management, for example.
I think also they have an own wrap use
component and also they should have done
Hey, bud.
Thank you.
a UI in the end.
Give me a minute.
Point is, right now we don't,
it's not in UI is not right in the scope,
Oh, OK.
About 50. And there we.
so this is then.
Okay.
I mean,
this is maybe then also something that
could be clarified with the respective
team,
whether there is an UI and whether or if
there is no, none,
when they will provide it.
So it's for sure always good if we have
the plan in focus.
because otherwise then you get nothing.
But yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
This notes are up the page,
they actually talk about nodes UI as well,
which is a kind of reuse, but yeah,
we have not we are not aware about it in
Yeah.
detail,
but this has this is mentioning something
KIT.
about reuse UI for nodes.
So, my understanding is,
unless you bring that in purchase order
of Fiori app,
how are we going to do that migration?
I mean,
do we show the existing notes or text,
you know, capturing space,
capture that notes and text, and...
But then rather than sending it into our
existing long text,
but send it to the new persistency layer.
Is that the approach that we are looking
for?
We never imagined to migrate to the new
nodes component, right? Notes UI.
That's how it looks like.
No, yeah, but you know,
we basically in the consumption,
we should be agnostic of the persistency.
Okay.
It should be like whether you,
at least now,
let's maybe first of all take this,
the ABAP implementation,
where the persistency is, lies in the end,
you don't know once you consume the APIs
Yeah.
of the subscript.
Skies.
Mhm, mhm.
So, this is first of all.
At least what they tell us,
it's basically like, ah,
you can do the migration and you will,
there will be no effect at all,
first of all. So maybe, I don't know it,
so maybe you need to implement some class
to write stuff. But I mean.
There should be a framework that does at
least the stuff and also does a decision
based on the configuration,
where to write it, where to read it.
And stuff like this should be in this
design of the SD colleagues.
But besides that, so old reports,
they should work as before and you should
not,
so it's not like you do a major
refactoring of your legacy applications
if you migrate to the new persistency,
Mhm.
because you have to read from somewhere
else, no.
Beautiful.
Thakur.
It should be basically,
you should be agnostic of that one.
OK.
Okay, so, so...
See, all the, the,
the only thing they say is,
if you want to use this RAP reuse
component in your RAP BO,
this would only work,
would not work with the STXH, STXL tables.
There you need, I don't know,
that for sure,
they don't use function modules.
There you need to use.
Then the new persistency,
this is what they say.
Okay.
So, from a managed purchase order app,
I think the UI does not change, so yeah,
Yeah, exactly.
So there would be no changes. Yeah,
okay.
we don't want to change there anything,
yeah.
Okay.
Okay, all right, thanks.
And this should be tested against both
the web GUI as well as the Fiori app,
right, Nils? Yeah, okay.
Yes, exactly. Yep.
Okay, if there are no questions further.
Thanks.
Yeah, I mean,
a lot of questions running on our head,
Yeah, yeah, I know that.
Yeah.
The.
but then, yeah, yeah.
Um...
Yeah, yeah, I, I...
So if he if he request for a follow on,
we would you be able to handle right?
Some people have already talked.
So I right now it's too much information
for us, yeah.
Okay.
Yes, yes, I understand. You can always...
You have seen we have planned some time.
Yeah, so we will anyway have,
I already discussed with Nils and next
OK.
week anyway we will have a handover
meeting with the CGTO colleagues.
We will try to plan that.
And for this particular topic as well,
I want you guys to go through the
existing links and also the details and
everything.
And also try to see, okay,
what is there as of now? And then we can,
anyway,
we'll have further meetings for the
follow up calls on this. Yeah.
Yeah, one basic question.
I don't know if you already covered this
initially.
So what was the problem statement for
which we are doing this activity along
text to replace to the new persistency
table?
One is that all these nodes are actually
in cluster tables,
which are actually not directly
accessible using this VDM views.
And also it's not a part of even for
search and also AI related, also for BDC,
these are not accessible.
Mhm.
That is the first thing. And second,
the method that we are currently using is
Okay.
we are actually relying on the views
which are actually done as a for this ESH,
like enterprise search.
So we are we are relying on the
Sachin.
replicated subscript tables.
which is actually also not a correct
approach.
And we also got a few customer tickets as
well about this because the data is not
consistent.
Sometimes the formatting is not working,
those kind of things. So anyway,
all these BDC and everything is actually
Mhm.
coming as a big topic for us.
It is always recommended to move to this
new persistency. That is the major.
Okay.
Got it. OK, OK. Thank you.
That makes sense. Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay,
actually we are becoming late for the
next meeting.
This is already started 10 minutes back.
So maybe if you can go through this and
then maybe we can have a follow up
meeting if needed, right,
if that makes sense.
Yes, yes,
we will for we will first go through and
understand and brainstorm together,
and yes, we'll come back, yeah.
Yes, yes, yes.
Okay, yeah.
Thank you for the session, and thanks.
Then thank you so much.
We can stop the recording and thank you
Thank you.
everyone for attending. Thank you.
Thank you. Thanks, bye.
Thank you.
Thank you, Sanjay.
Good.